but Biden's decision to stop sending
bombs and artillery shells to Israel if
it invades Rafa had set off a political
firestorm in Washington uh Patty K
standing by as you can see joins us now
from the Washington Capital sorry from
the US capital of Washington uh so Patty
the Israeli Prime Minister saying that
Israel will stand alone if it has to
how's that all going down in the United
States well it depends on what your what
Your political party you belong to quite
frankly and you know this is been going
on for months we do know that the B
Administration is triying to pressure
Israel on reducing casualties try to Red
try to get more Aid in but they never
admitted it publicly they never talked
about what the consequences were going
to be well that changed recently and you
saw President Joe Biden come out and say
look if they do this large scale
Invasion no bombs no artillery shells
perhaps no none of the Technologies
needed that turns uh dumb bombs into
smart bombs uh and he's not just saying
that that's going to happen showing that
it's already sort of happening we do
know that from the Pentagon briefing
today that there was a shipment of bombs
uh 1800 2,000 pound bombs those are the
ones that cause a lot of Destruction and
1700 500 PB bombs those are supposed to
be shipped to Israel and that's been
delayed so sending a message of what's
going to happen telling them this is
already not happening and at the same
time one of the more significant things
is we for the very first time heard US
President Joe Biden say specifically Al
American bombs have killed innocent
civilians in Gaza and they are again
sending the message with the briefings
throughout the capital today that there
is simply another
way they have talked I think quite
openly about conducting a major military
operation uh in Rafa we are opposed to
that but we'll see what happens we have
made quite clear we don't want to see it
happen we continue and and I should say
we do continue to engage with them about
other options that they can pursue we
have presented uh a full range of other
policy choices that they can make uh
that we think would achieve the goal of
dismantling Hamas and choking off the
Hamas battalions that remain uh in Rafa
without um without further endangering
civilians there and without causing this
mass population displacement with no
place for them to
go all right Patty so what about Capitol
Hill what are they saying
there oh they've had so much to say so
many tweets or whatever you call them
now on x
uh so many press conferences so many
press releases so from the Republicans
you are seeing a tremendous amount of
anger at first the Speaker of the House
Mike Johnson tried to dismiss it said
Biden was maybe having a senior moment
because he said he would be blindsided
if that is in fact the policy because
remember Congress just passed tens of
billions of dollars to go to Israel for
weapons and for humanitarian Aid and so
we've seen Republicans in the house they
some are saying that they're going to
start crafting articles of impeachment
we saw a US senator Republican say that
Biden needs to be impeached that seems
highly unlikely that not sending Aid to
Israel would reach the level of high
crimes and misdemeanors some Democrats
are also saying that they're concerned
by this move but you're seeing the
progressives in the Democratic party
really applauding it saying this is a
necessary First Step they want him to do
more uh because this has become a real
political reliability with the president
in his quest to get a second term among
Democrats especially young Democrats
you've seen what's happening on college
campuses all over this country so a lot
of Anger from some on Capitol Hill that
said there's not much they can do about
it under the Constitution Congress is
the power of the per strings they said
give Israel this money it's the
Secretary of State decides if uh they
need to give them that money and it
really is up to the president so he has
the authority throughout history to
Simply say no you're not getting these
weapons and there's pretty much nothing
congress can do about it all right Patty
thanks for that Patty Gohan there in
Washington
DC protests and solidarity with
Palestinians in Gaza are continuing in
US college campuses students at John's
Hopkins University in Baltimore have
defied orders to end their demonstration
hundreds of protesters have set up camp
by pitching tents on the campus they've
been there since last week College
authorities had asked students to leave
by the end of
Wednesday the students have set up the
encampment in front of the the John's
Hopkins Library this aart called the
beach Alan fiser was
there the protest started here last
Monday inspired by other protests that
they'd seen around the United States
John's Hopkins University is one of the
most famous in America it is a very
prestigious medical school and many of
the people here have been saying how
they feel really sorry for the doctors
in Gaza who they're fighting against
almost impossible odds to try and treat
their patients now this is one of the
most famous views of the University
looking back towards the library and as
you can see the yard here is covered
with tents and in fact over the last few
days the number of tents has increased
the number of people protesting here has
increased and it's not just students
it's people from the local community as
well now they've made demands to the
university including a disinvestment
from any connections they have with
Israel and also making sure that the
university Cuts its military ties as
well uh they say that is helping to fuel
the Israeli War Machine in Gaza now the
university has asked people to leave the
yard and said that if they don't then
there could be consequences it could
impact their permanent record it could
impact the possibility of graduation and
many people will be graduating from this
University in the next few weeks or so
but as you can see even though a
deadline to move has come and gone
people are still here now it's unlikely
that the police will move in because the
mayor has said as long long as this
protest remains peaceful there is
nothing for them to do because the
people here are simply exercising their
first amendment the right of freedom of
speech and not breaking the law so for
the time being this encampment stays
Alan fiser aler in
Baltimore make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler